following us air strikes on houthi
controlled missile facilities in Yemen
for attacking Merchant vessels and US
Navy ships in the Red Sea the United
States again targeted the
houthis on Wednesday the Biden
Administration announced it was
designating the houthis as a specially
designated Global terrorist
organization if the houthis cease the
attacks we can certainly reconsider this
designation if they don't as the
president said we will not hesitate to
take further actions the White House
says the designation is designed to
protect freedom of navigation about 12%
of international trade passes through
the Red Sea and houthi attacks have
already had an impact on Global Supply
chains declaring the houthis a terrorist
group bans members from entering the US
freezes funds held in US Banks and
triggers sanctions against any entity
providing the houthis with support but
the houthis say the attacks on
commercial ships that began in October
will continue in solidarity with the
Palestinians and the more than 24,000
killed in Israel's war on Gaza the
escalation has fueled concerns of a
broader Middle East
conflict in the past week the United
States and the UK carried out joint air
strikes on houthi controlled missile
batteries weapon storage sites and air
defense systems designating the houthis
as a terror organization requires
Congressional approval and some Congress
members argue Israel using Us weapons
against the Palestinians is the real
terror organization still despite some
push back there is overwhelming support
for Israel and Congress that's why the
designation against the houthis is
expected to take effect next month
Kimberly hit jazer the White House